Counting DNA Nucleotides
========================

### Bioinformatics Notes:

Some cell basics:

 + cells make up all living things
 + the nucleus is in most eukaryotic cells
 + the nucleus is filled with macromolecules called chromatin

on mitosis:

 + mitosis is eukaryotic cell division
 + during mitosis most chromatin condense into long, thin strings called chromosomes.
 + one of these macromolecules contained in chromatin are called nucleic acids.

Nucleic acids!!!

 + nucleic acids are polymers
 + polymers are repeating chains of smaller, similarly structured molecules (monomers).
 + nucleic acid polymers are commonly called strands because they are long and thin.
 + the nucleic acid monomer is called a nucleotide and is used as a unit of strand length.
 + one unit is abbreviated to `nt`
 + each nucleotide has three parts
    - a sugar molecule
    - a negatively charged ion called a phosphate
    - a compound called a nucleobase or "base", for short

What is polymerization?

 + the construction of a polymer
 + process is to take a sugar of one nt and bond it to the phosphate of the unit in the chain.
    - this forms what is called the 'sugar-phosphate backbone' for the nucleic acid strand.
 + since the base units are specific and finite, nucleic acid strands can only differ in the order of these bases.
 + this ordering defines a nucleic acid's primary structure

Bringing it back to DNA:

 + deoxyribose nucleic acid (DNA) has a sugar called deoxyribose
 + it only has four choices for nucleobases. The following molecules:
    - adenine (A)
    - cytosine (C)
    - guanine (G)
    - thymine (T)
 + DNA is everywhere (more on this later) even virus' which usually don't count as living
 + 'Genome' is used to describe the sum of all the DNA contained in an organism's chromosomes.
