Wascally Wabbits
=============================================================

### Bioinformatics Notes... kinda:

+ Fibonacci's name is _actually_ Leonardo of Pisa and did this thing
  in 1202
+ the fibbonacci sequence came from fibonacci's study of rabbit sex.
+ these were the original assumptions for the population:
  - The population begins in the first month with a pair of newborn
    rabbits.
  - Rabbits reach reproductive age after one month.
  - In any given month, every rabbit of reproductive age mates with
    another rabbit of reproductive age.
  - Exactly one month after two rabbits mate, they produce one male and
    one female rabbit.
  - Rabbits never die or stop reproducing.
+ how many pairs of rabbits would remain in one year?
  - month 1: pair of newborn rabbits.
  - month 2: the first pair of rabbits reach reproductive age and mate. - month 3: new pair of rabbits born. two rabbit pairs. Pair 1 mates
    again.
  - month 4: Pair 1 makes another pair, pair 2 is mature and gets it
    on. three total pairs.
  - year 1: 144 pairs.

What do we have to remember in real life? Rabbits are not immortal, **but** the model is actually pretty good for reproduction in a predator-free environments, i.e. Austrailia. Rosalind tells us about how european rabbits appeared in Australia - mid 19th Century - and within 50 years they eradicated most plant species.

This resulted in lasting changes to the Australian ecosystem. Grasslands were eroded and are still totally screwed over in the outback.

Notes from the problem section:

+ A sequence is an ordered collection of objects, which are allowed to repeat. Duh.
+ Sequences can be finite or infinite. Duh.
+ A recurrence relation is a way of defining the terms of a sequence
+ with respect to the values of previous terms. Woah! That's what a fib sequence is called!
+ Indian mathematicians knew the fibb sequence over two millennia ago. Woah!
