Introduction to Mendelian Inheritance
=============================================================

### Bioinformatics Notes:

+ Modern laws of inheritance come from Gregor Mendel (an Augustinian Friar) in 1865.
+ before this we had "blending inheritance"
  + an organism must exhibit a blend of its parent's traits.
    + wrong empirically! people who are taller than both their parents
    + wrong statistically! over time, blended traits implies regression to mean.

+ Mendel was obsessed.
+ viewed traits as continuous processes
+ divided them into discrete building blocks called 'factors'
+ proposed that every factor possesses distinct forms, called alleles.

+ law of segregation (Mendel's first law): every organism possesses a pair of alleles for a given factor.
  + if an individual's two alleles for a given factor are the same, then it is homozygous for the factor;
  + if the alleles differ, then the individual is heterozygous.
  + an organism randomly passes one of its two alleles (/factor) to each offspring (individual gets one allele from each parent).

+ a factor can either be a composed of dominant or recessive alleles.
+ you need to possess one copy of 'dominant' to display that trait, or be recessive homozygous.

Logistics:

+ sometimes, we'll represent a dominant allele by capital letter and recessive allele by a lower case
+ an organism's _genotype_ is its precise genetic makeup
+ an organism's _phenotype_ is its physical manifestation of traits
+ possibilities describing an individual's inheritance of two alleles can be represented by a Punnett square
